---
layout: default
---

## Perception Book Clubs

In addition to the material covered in class meetings, readings, and your general studies, all students enrolled in NEU 323 also must participate in a book club!

### Book Club Quick Links
* [List of Suggested Books](./BookList.html).
* [Book Club Plan Submission Instructions and Template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YrJHBIYxZ4bPz8Fp4pbU3yH7ib0682kkRHAdhgsMkRg/edit?usp=sharing).
* [Book Club Leader Report Instructions and Template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZahSuFLYPK9iKkFcjcSWuzYMpvDtIiONu20y82k73EA/edit?usp=sharing).
* Project Plan Instructions and Template: *TBA*
* Project Presentations Instructions and Documentation Template: *TBA*


### What do the book clubs entail?
You will form a book club with three or four other students and collectively choose a book that you will read across the course of the semester. During the semester, you will meet several times to discuss the book on your own time and will develop a project related in some way to the topic of your book.

### Why are we doing book clubs?
The academic understanding of perception is based on a richly interdisciplinary intercahnge of ideas; neuroscientists interested in perception draw on the ideas and experiences of other philosophers, psychologists, sociologists, biologists, artists, designers, engineers, physicists, as well as researchers from critical studies, disability studies, medicine. In many cases, our understanding can also be informed by the day-to-day life of people with a wide range of perceptual and sensory abilities. This wide pool of interconnected knowledge means that for present and future scholars like you, that you'll need to look beyond textbooks and even journal articles to start seeing connections in perception! Reading popular press books (books that are intended for a more general audience than textbooks), you can get a basic sense of a broad range of cool ideas without needing to dive as deeply into a topic in a class. Additionally, book clubs and journal clubs are one way that researchers and practitioners stay up-to-date with new ideas and findings. Once you're done with your undergraduate degree, you will probably want to keep learning, and this is one way (that doesn't require textbooks and manuals)! Many labs organize reading clubs to regularly meet and discuss readings for just this reason.

### What books can we choose?
For a list of possible books, follow this [link](./BookList.html)! Each book club must choose a different book (which is one incentive to choose and submit your plan early!). Get in touch with the instructor if your group has difficulty finding a book related to your interests!

### What do projects look like?
Projects can take many forms -- the main criterion is that they build on ideas from your book club, that they are accomplishable during the semester, and that you present them to the class in some form. They can be creative projects -- for instance, creating a performance, piece of plastic art, board or video game, or even a meal that is inspired by ideas or principles from your reading or inspired by your book club discussions. They can be research projects, broadly understood -- you could try to train yourselves on a sensory skill, or plan and conduct a small experiment, run an observational research study with non-human animals, or conduct interviews with people of interest. The project can  be political or outreach-based in nature -- for instance, a series of letters sent to politicians advocating for some issue, or the creation of materials for a public awareness campaign. It can also be an engineering project -- creating some sensing tool or robot for instance. You will complete your project during the second half of class and on the final day of the semester, present the project either as a short lecture or a more immersive in-class experience for other students. Projects will need to be approved before submitting a plan by the time of exam 3.

### How are we graded for the book club and project? 
25% of your total class grade is tied to your active participation in your book club. Grades related to the book club come from five subcomponents:


* Book Club Plan (5%):  The book club plan can be submitted as a group but must be signed by all members. The book club plan will list the members of the group and the selected book. It will also include a provisional schedule for the remainder of the semester that outlines when members will read different chapters of the book, when you will have book club meetings, who will lead each meeting, and a loose plan of where you will be meeting and who will organize the meeting space. Additionally, it will include a code of conduct or set of membership expectations that you have all agreed on. Graded on completion!
* Book Club Leader Report (5%): Each member of the book club will be responsible for leading at least one book club meeting and turning in a short report on the meeting. The leader of the meeting will come up with a couple questions to guide discussion, will take note of attendance at the meetings, will take notes on the meeting (or make sure that there is a secretary), and will be in charge of ensuring the meeting goes smoothly. After the meeting, the leader will write up a short report that describes topics discussed, things learned, new questions, and notes on the dynamics of the meeting itself. Graded on completion!
* Book Club Attendance (5%): Each member must attend at least five book club meetings (as tracked by the book club leader reports). Each meeting is worth 1% of the class grade. If you are ill for a short period, you can arrange with your group for an alternative way to meet (eg.: over Zoom) or you can make up your attendance by asking your weekly book club leader for the list of questions for the meeting and writing two pages (double spaced) that address your thoughts on each of the questions and submitting that next time in class.
* Final Project Plan (5%): In addition to reading the book, each book club will create some kind of project that relates to topics discussed. This can be a small research project, an artistic creation, a performance, a letter to a legislator, a recorded interview with a person of interest, a video game, or just about anything that builds on ideas you learned while reading and in class. The submitted plan will describe the project and how it relates to ideas you have discussed so far in your reading and will include a proposed schedule and break-down of labor. You should start thinking about the types of projects you might want to do early in case your project requires longer periods of time (for instance, finding a person to interview or learning to read Braille as a group). The project plans will be graded on completeness as well as innovation and complexity (plans that are clearly too simple for a 5 person group will not receive full credit while plans that are clearly too ambitious for your time will also not receive full credit). All members must sign off on the plan.
* Final Project Presentation (5%): Projects will be presented in the final week of class. Depending on the project, this might involve a group slideshow presentation or lecture describing what you did for your project, or it might involve bringing in an artifact like a piece of art and providing an oral narrative of how you decided to create it, or it could even involve a performance. In all cases, the presentation describe how the project ties into your selected book reading. It is OK if not all members of the book club verbally present but all must be involved in preparing the presentation and you will submit a short document laying out who worked on what component of the presentation.

Additionally, to ensure that book clubs don't hold off until the last minute to schedule their meetings, you are required to have met at least twice by the time of the second exam, at least three times by the third exam, and at least four times by the fourth exam. If your group does *not* meet these deadlines, 1/2 point will be deducted from all members' total attendance score for each deadline missed.
